Add release notes for Kyma 2.14 (#983)
kyma-project/website: content/blog-posts/2023-05-15-release-notes-2.14/index.md

---
title: “Kyma 2.14”
author:
  name: “Zhoujing Wang, RM @Kyma, and Nina Hingerl, Technical Writer @Kyma”
tags:
  - release-notes
type: release
releaseTag: “2.14.0”
redirectFrom:
  - “/blog/release-notes-214"
---

> ## Observability

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Introducing our release 2.14, an update so powerful it could tame a Mudhorn. We've forged this Beskar-like software with precision, ensuring it stands strong in the face of any challenge. So, gather your clan of developers and remember: This is the way to coding excellence.

## Observability
```

> ### Tracing

Reviewer: I have no clue why. @zhoujing2022  do you?

> ### Tracing

Reviewer 2: Fixed it, was copied over with formatting of oneNote

>     - Removal of component (https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/15852)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Tracing was deprecated with release 2.11 (https://github.com/kyma-project/website/blob/main/content/blog-posts/2023-01-16-jaeger-deprecation/index.md) and has been removed (https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/15852). If you want to continue using Jaeger, follow the steps in our [Jaeger example](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/main/jaeger) to deploy your custom Jaeger installation.

```

## Telemetry
### Manager

>     - Improved resiliency to modifications to the logging setup (https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/issues/107)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Resilience against modifications to the logging setup has been improved (https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/issues/107)
```

>     - Tracing was deprecated with release 2.11 (https://github.com/kyma-project/website/blob/main/content/blog-posts/2023-01-16-jaeger-deprecation/index.md) and has been removed (https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/15852). If you want to continue using Jaeger, follow the steps in our [Jaeger example](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/main/jaeger) to deploy your custom Jaeger installation.

Reviewer 2: 1. no, as it is related to OSS only. Alternatively, we could link the release notes with the deprecation
2. well observed, will add it
3. very good, I somehow trusted that all gets copied..

>     - Tracing was deprecated with release 2.11 (https://github.com/kyma-project/website/blob/main/content/blog-posts/2023-01-16-jaeger-deprecation/index.md) and has been removed (https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/15852). If you want to continue using Jaeger, follow the steps in our [Jaeger example](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/main/jaeger) to deploy your custom Jaeger installation.

Reviewer 2: I fixed 2. and 3.

### Tracing
    - Update of components
        ○ Otel Collector 0.75.0
### Logging
    • Update of components
        ○ Fluentbit 2.0.11 (https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/pull/17310)

>     • Managed retry policy for custom outputs (https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/pull/139)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    • The retry policy for custom outputs has been updated (https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/pull/139)
```

## API Gateway

>     - Access Log configuration got streamlined across all profiles, having them disabled by default and selectively enableable using the Istio Telemetry API, as it was already the case for the evaluation and production profile (https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/pull/17305)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Access Log configuration has been streamlined across all profiles: By default, they are disabled and can be  enabled selectively using the Istio Telemetry API, as it was already the case for the evaluation and production profile (https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/pull/17305)
```

>     - Added trace context attributes conform to w3c-tracecontext to the access log format (https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/pull/17304)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Trace context attributes conform to w3c-tracecontext have been added to the access log format (https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/pull/17304)
```

## Serverless

> ### Management of Function runtime pod’s labels and annotations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Improved Function Custom Resource API
```

> With 2.14 we have enriched Function Custom Resource API to enable management of  labels and annotations of the function’s runtime pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Function Custom Resource API has been enriched to enable management of labels and annotations of the Function’s runtime Pod.
```

> This will allow you to use various k8s tools against function worklads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Now you can use various Kubernetes tools against Function workloads. For example, you can enable a custom log parser for your Function logs by adding the annotation `fluentbit.io/parser: my-custom-regex-parser` as part of the functions spec.
```

For example, you can enable custom log parser for your function logs by adding `fluentbit.io/parser: my-custom-regex-parser`  annotation as part of the functions spec.

> Beware that those fields are part of the function’s spec. Those are applied on the function runtime pods. Do not confuse them with metadata of the function resurce itself.

Reviewer: which "those fields" ?

```suggestion
  Note that those fields are part of the Function’s spec. Those are applied on the Function runtime Pods. Do not confuse them with metadata of the Function resource itself.
```

>   Now you can use various Kubernetes tools against Function workloads. For example, you can enable a custom log parser for your Function logs by adding the annotation `fluentbit.io/parser: my-custom-regex-parser` as part of the functions spec.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Now you can use various Kubernetes tools against Function workloads. For example, you can enable a custom Log Parser for your Function logs by adding the annotation `fluentbit.io/parser: my-custom-regex-parser` as part of the functions spec.
```

### Improved reconciliation logic

> 2.14 brings improvenets in function resource reconciliation. Function controller is now aware of the function runtime base image version used in the functions. When a patch is rolled out for the serverless runtimes, the controller will redeploy your functions automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Function resource reconciliation has been improved: Function controller is now aware of the Function runtime base image version used in the Functions. When a patch is rolled out for the Serverless runtimes, the controller redeploys your functions automatically.
```

---
title: “Kyma 2.14”
author:
  name: “Zhoujing Wang, RM @Kyma, and Nina Hingerl, Technical Writer @Kyma”
tags:
  - release-notes
type: release
releaseTag: “2.14.0”
redirectFrom:
  - “/blog/release-notes-214"
---
## Observability
### Tracing
    - Tracing was deprecated with release 2.11 (https://github.com/kyma-project/website/blob/main/content/blog-posts/2023-01-16-jaeger-deprecation/index.md) and has been removed (https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/15852). If you want to continue using Jaeger, follow the steps in our [Jaeger example](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/main/jaeger) to deploy your custom Jaeger installation.

## Telemetry
### Manager

>     - Improved resiliency to modifications to the logging setup (https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/issues/107)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Resilience against modifications to the logging setup has been improved (https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/issues/107)
```

---
title: “Kyma 2.14”
author:
  name: “Zhoujing Wang, RM @Kyma, and Nina Hingerl, Technical Writer @Kyma”
tags:
  - release-notes
type: release
releaseTag: “2.14.0”
redirectFrom:
  - “/blog/release-notes-214"
---
## Observability
### Tracing

> - Tracing was deprecated with release 2.11 (https://github.com/kyma-project/website/blob/main/content/blog-posts/2023-01-16-jaeger-deprecation/index.md) and has been removed (https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/15852). If you want to continue using Jaeger, follow the steps in our [Jaeger example](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/main/jaeger) to deploy your custom Jaeger installation. It is recommended to remove any existing installation of the tracing component by running the related [cleanup script](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/release-2.14/docs/assets/2.13-2.14-cleanup-jaeger.sh).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Tracing was deprecated with [release 2.11](https://github.com/kyma-project/website/blob/main/content/blog-posts/2023-01-16-jaeger-deprecation/index.md) and has been [removed](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/15852). For more information, read the [2.13-2.14 Migration Guide](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/release-2.14/docs/migration-guide-2.13-2.14.md). If you want to continue using Jaeger, follow the steps in our [Jaeger example](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/main/jaeger) to deploy your custom Jaeger installation. It is recommended to remove any existing installation of the tracing component by running the related [cleanup script](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/release-2.14/docs/assets/2.13-2.14-cleanup-jaeger.sh).
```

### Monitoring
- Update of components (https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/17378)
  - Prometheus 2.43.1
  - Prometheus-operator 0.64.1
  - Alertmanager 0.25.0
- Switching to custom binaries to update base dependencies independent of the release cycle for (https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/17378)
  - Alertmanager
  - Node-exporter

## Telemetry
### Manager

> - Resilience against modifications to the logging setup has been improved (https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/issues/107)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Resilience against modifications to the logging setup has been [improved](https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/issues/107)
```

> - Resilience against modifications to the logging setup has been improved (https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/issues/107)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Resilience against modifications to the logging setup has been [improved](https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/issues/107)
```

- Updated the retry policy for custom outputs (https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/pull/139)

## API Gateway
- Access Log configuration has been streamlined across all profiles: By default, they are disabled and can be enabled selectively using the Istio Telemetry API, as it was already the case for the evaluation and production profile (https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/pull/17305)
- Trace context attributes conform to w3c-tracecontext have been added to the access log format (https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/pull/17304)

## Serverless
### Improved Function API
- The Function Custom Resource API has been enriched to enable management of labels and annotations of the Function’s runtime Pod.
  Now you can use various Kubernetes tools against Function workloads. For example, you can enable a custom LogParser for your Function logs by adding the annotation `fluentbit.io/parser: my-custom-regex-parser` as part of the functions spec.
  Note that those fields are part of the Function’s spec. Those are applied on the Function runtime Pods. Do not confuse them with metadata of the Function resource itself.
### Improved reconciliation logic

> - Function resource reconciliation has been improved: Function controller is now aware of the Function runtime base image version used in the Functions. When a patch is rolled out for the Serverless runtimes, the controller redeploys your functions automatically.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Function resource reconciliation has been improved: Function controller is now aware of the Function runtime base image version used in the Functions. When a patch is rolled out for the Serverless runtimes, the controller redeploys your Functions automatically.
```
